- [Instructor] In this course,
we're going to use Thymeleaf templates for our view.
Thymeleaf has a big benefit of being valid HTML
as well as a template itself,
and this allows you to build a template
and style it outside of the web application,
and then just populate it with data.
So let's get started with a new web application
and build our Thymeleaf template.
Now, I'm going to use a plugin built into my IDE
to build the rest of the modules for this course.
Of course, if you don't have a plugin in your IDE,
go to start.spring.io,
create the project, bring it into your IDE,
and then start using it.
You're going to see the exact same options on the web
as I am in my plugin, because of course it's all based
on the same web service.
So let me go add a new module,
and I'm going to use Spring Initializer.
Now, for this one, we're going to create a group name
of com.frankmoley.lil.sbet.landon,
and this is going to be called room-web-app.
Maven, Java, Jar, 11, version is fine.
Select next, now there's a couple things
we're going to pick here,
from Web, we're going to pick Spring Web,
from Template Engines, we'll pick Thymeleaf.
And now I'll hit next, check that the location
is where I'm working from, where my exercise files are,
and go ahead and hit Finish.
Now I need to go ahead and make sure that Maven is enabled.
You may not have to do that depending on your IDE,
but we'll allow Maven to do all of its dependency management
before we get going too further.
All right, so let's go ahead
and open up the room-web-app
and go to Source, Main, Resources,
and we're going to create a new template
in the form of an HTML file.
We'll call it Rooms.
Now, before we get too deep, up here on line two,
we need to add a namespace.
So xml namespace, th equals
http://www.thymeleaf.org,
now let's put a title in here.
We will call it Landon Hotel, Rooms.
Now we're going to use a table,
and I know that tables have gone out of style,
but for the purposes of this demo,
it will work just fine for what we're doing.
So the first thing we want to do is we want to do a row,
and we're going to do our header elements here real quick.
So let's do a Room Number,
and a Room Name,
and we will add in Bed Info.
Now we're going to do another row,
now this time, however, we're going to iterate,
and we're going to iterate
off of a value that we're going to expect in the model.
So we're going to do an each element here,
and our each is a room,
so we are going to get a single room
from the model and an element called rooms.
Now, right here, we know that we need to pass an array
of elements of type room into our model.
Now, what room is, we actually define below.
We will do a td element with th:text equals,
and again, we're going to pull this from the model,
so dollar sign, curly brace, room.number,
so from the room item in our iteration,
we want to get the number.
And because this is valid HTML, we can actually put a value
in here that will be replaced by Thymeleaf as it operates.
So let's go ahead and copy this line,
and then we'll go ahead and change these.
So we're going to do room.name,
and we'll swap this out with name,
and we're going to do room.info,
and we will swap this out with info.
And that's all there is to building a template.
That's literally it,
and if we had wired in a controller,
we could observe this,
but one of the beauties of Thymeleaf
is because this is valid HTML,
I can open this file up in a web browser,
and you'll see that indeed it does render,
and it renders data.
Now, of course we have no model, so there's no iteration.
So it just gives us this raw data that we put in,
but this gives us something to go from.